hi and welcome to watts for char calm
today we are baking a batch of
traditional Chelsea buns this recipe is
as close to the original recipe as you
will get and every step is well worth
the effort
to start pour the flour and salt into a
large mixing bowl mix until combined
make a well in the center and pour in
the yeast
in a small saucepan melt the butter and
add the milk eat this until it is
lukewarm
pour the butter mixture and
lightly beaten egg into the flour and
mix this together until the dough starts
to come together and come away from the
sides of the bowl
turn the dough out onto a lightly
floured work surface
normally I don't recommend adding extra
flour but this particular dough is very
sticky so you will have to flour the
work surface and add a bit of flour to
the top of the dough proceed to knead
the dough for five minutes until it is
smooth and elastic
you
place the dough back into the mixing
bowl cover the bowl
kitchen towel and allow the dough to
prove for 60 minutes
after 60 minutes turn the dough back out
onto the work surface knead briefly to
knock it down then roll it out into a
rectangle 20 centimeters by 30
centimeters or 8 by 12 inches
you will have to persuade the DOE to do
this by pulling and stretching it into
the corners
you
brush the dough with the melted butter
evenly over the surface followed by the
cinnamon seedless raisins and
cranberries
finish it off with orange zest
start rolling up the long edge of the
dough keeping it as tight as possible
without deforming the roll
using a sharp thin blade knife sliced
the roll into four centimeter or one and
three-quarter inch sections
likely oil a deep roasting pan and
arranged the buns in the pan with no
more than 1 centimeter or a little less
than half an inch between them leave the
buns to rise uncovered in a warm place
for 30 minutes
pre-heat your oven to 190 degrees
Celsius or 375 Fahrenheit and bake the
buns for 20 to 25 minutes until golden
it is advisable to check the buns at the
15-minute mark and cover them with foil
should they be browning too quickly
remove the buns from the oven and let
them cool for a few minutes before
transferring them to a wire rack
ones are cooling melt the apricot jam in
a small pan along with the tablespoon of
water brush the buns liberally with the
glaze
in another bowl mix together the icing
sugar orange zest and 45 moles of water
when totally combined drizzle the icing
over the buns
congratulations you have just made your
own Chelsea buns
this recipe can be found in printable
format on our website what's for Chow
calm thanks for joining us please
subscribe to our Channel and we'll see
you again tomorrow